1.Question 1
What is the primary value add of relational databases over flat files?

ANS:	Ability to scan large amounts of data quickly


2.Question 2
Which of the following is NOT a good rule to follow when developing a database model?

ANS:	Use a persons email address as their primary key


3.Question 3
If our user interface (i.e. like iTunes) has repeated strings on one column of the UI, how should we model this properly in a database:

ANS:	We make a table that maps the strings in the column to numbers and then use those numbers in the column


4.Question 4
Which of the following is the label we give a column that the "outside world" uses to look up a particular row?

ANS:	Logical key


5.Question 5
What is the label we give to a column that is an integer and used to point to a row in a different table?

ANS:	Foreign key


6.Question 6
What MySQL keyword is added to primary keys in a CREATE TABLE statement to indicate that the database is to provide a value for the column when records are inserted.

ANS:	AUTO_INCREMENT


7.Question 7
What is the SQL keyword that reconnects rows with foreign keys with the corresponding data in the table that the foreign key points to?

ANS:	JOIN


8.Question 8
What happens when you JOIN two tables together without an ON clause?

ANS:	The number of rows you get is the number of rows in the first table times the number of rows in the second table


9.Question 9
What does an "ON DELETE CASCADE" clause imply in a foreign key constraint in a MySQL CREATE TABLE statement?

ANS:	When a row in the parent table is deleted all the rows in a child table that point to that row via a foreign key are deleted


10.Question 10
Which of the following types of tables often are created without a primary key?

ANS:	Many-to-many


11.Question 11
When might one prefer the CHAR column type over VARCHAR?

ANS:	When the data is relatively short and almost always present


12.Question 12
What is the built-in MySQL function that gives you the current time in an SQL statement?

ANS:	NOW()


13.Question 13
Which of the following indexes would be best for fast look up for exact key matches but not so good for prefix lookups or sorting?

ANS:	HASH


14.Question 14
Why is it a good idea to add "CONSTRAINT FOREIGN KEY" statements when creating database tables? (Check all that apply)

ANS:	--> So that database modeling tools know the relationships between tables

	--> So that you can specify default behaviors when records are deleted or updated

	--> So that MySql knows which columns are foreign keys and which columns are just integers


15.Question 15
When you add an index to a field in a database table, how are performance and storage affected?

ANS:	Read performance is faster, insert performance is slower and extra storage is required



